

# Week 11 {-} 
<div style = "font-size: 28pt"> **_Lotka-Volterra model of predator-prey interactions (2)_**</div>

## Lecture in a nutshell {-}

* **Topic:**
    1. 
    2. 
    3. 
    
<div style="height:1px ;"><br></div>

* **Topic:**
    1. 
    2. 
    3.

<div style="height:1px ;"><br></div>    
<br>


## Lab demonstration {-}

Similar to what we've done in the previous class, in this lab we are going to analyze the Rosenzweig–MacArthur predator–prey model:

<div style="margin-left: 30%;">$\begin{align}\frac {dN}{dt} = rN(1-\frac{N}{K})-a\frac{N}{h+N}P\end{align}\\$</div>
<div style="margin-left: 30%; margin-bottom: 10px;">$\begin{align}\frac {dP}{dt} = ea\frac{N}{h+N}P-dP\end{align}$</div>

Please simulate the model using the parameter set (_N_ = 5, _P_ = 2, _r_ = 1.0, _K_ = 5.0, _a_ = 1.3, _h_ = 0.9, _e_ = 0.6, _d_ = 0.5) and plot the population trajectories of predator and prey as well as show their population dynamics in the state-space diagram.

What will happen if you add a perturbation to the system (i.e., change the initial conditions)? Try out different values of _N_ and _P_ and visualize the differences in the state-space diagram. Also compare the results of the Rosenzweig–MacArthur model and the original Lotka-Volterra model. What do you find regarding the final equilibrium cycles?


<br>

<style>
iframe {border: 0;}
</style>

<!-- Here is a shiny app for the Rosenzweig–MacArthur predator–prey model. Feel free to play around with different parameter inputs and see how the system dynamics change accordingly. -->

<iframe src="https://genchanghsu0115.shinyapps.io/LV_predation_mod_shinyapp/?showcase=0" width="800px" height="700px" data-external="1"></iframe>

### Special topic: time-scale separation {-}

Time-scale separation is a useful technique to reduce the dimension of the model system, where some state variables are assumed to be at a much shorter time scale (i.e., fast variables) compared with the others (i.e., slow variables). The fast variables will respond rapidly to a slight change in the slow variables so that the slow variables can be viewed as constants from the perspective of fast variables.

In the Rosenzweig–MacArthur predator–prey model, one way to achieve time-scale separation is to increase the prey growth rate—prey will grow much faster than predator does, mimicking the shorter generation time of prey relative to that of predator.

<style>
iframe {border: 0;}
</style>

<!-- If you change _r_, you can see that the population dynamics of prey and predator change quite dramatically. Some interesting patterns will arise!-->

<iframe src="https://genchanghsu0115.shinyapps.io/LV_predation_mod_shinyapp/?showcase=0" width="800px" height="700px" data-external="1"></iframe>

## Additional readings {-}

<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>

## Assignments {-}

[](./Assignments/.pdf){target="_blank"}


